---
layout: page
title: "Include"
subtitle: jsp:include
category: basic
date: 2013-06-06 08:55:36
order: 1
---

Include statements are a way to bring large chunks of code from other files. They are useful for making consistent references to repetitive content. Head scripts, disclaimers, 

```jsp
<html>
	<meta charset="UTF-8">
	<title>Includes</title>
	<jsp:include page="/WEB-INF/views/partials/head_scripts.jsp" />
<body>
	...
</body>
</html>
```

## Parameters
Just like a URL include tags can accept parameters via query strings.

```jsp
<jsp:include page="/WEB-INF/views/partial.jsp?foo=bar" />
```
The variables can then be accessed inside the file as `${param.foo}`

If you have multiple parameters to pass, a long query string can be cumbersome. In this case you can use the non self closing version of the tag mixed with the `jsp:param`. 

```jsp
<jsp:include page="/WEB-INF/views/partial.jsp">
	<jsp:param name="var1" value="foo" />
	<jsp:param name="var2" value="bar" />
	<jsp:param name="var3" value="foo" />
	<jsp:param name="var4" value="bar" />
	<jsp:param name="var5" value="foo" />
</jsp:include>
```


## Action vs Directive
There are actually two types of includes and they are given the awkward and unhelpful names of action and directive. While they may look and sound similar they share a very key difference.

### Include Actions
```jsp
<jsp:include page="/WEB-INF/views/partials/foo.jsp" />
```
The action is the most common include and is what we have already been discussing. The defining feature of the action is that it called on page _request_. This means that the include action can have dynamic properties and so you can pass variables between them. 


### Include Directives
```jsp
<%@ include file="/WEB-INF/views/partials/foo.jsp" %>
```
The directive has a slightly different syntax and doesn't look like a tag. Unlike the action it is included during page _translation_. This means that its contents are baked into the requesting page and then it is calculated. This small difference makes it very useful. 

Say for instance I have a collection of taglibs that are common to all pages. If I try to use an include action to import them the server will throw an error. This is because none of the taglibs will be imported until the page is trying to calculate. However if I use a directive instead, the code is baked in at translation and no errors will be thrown.

